---
title: Altare 3
tags:
  - Free host
---

* [Discord](https://discord.gg/8Tpnevea)
* [Dashboard](https://console.altare.cv/)
* [Dashboard (staging)](https://staging.altare.cv/)
* [Ptero panel](https://panel.altare.cv)

## History
**<DateDisplay timestamp="1752593244130" />**  
Altare 3 is announced and a few people are "appointed" as staff

**<DateDisplay timestamp="1753653287603" />**  
After some delays and ether getting drunk an url to the altare 3 beta testrun is released. Theres also a pterodactyl panel available other than the heliactyl dashboard

The first nodes were 4 in Germany, FSN

### Altare reaches 1500 members
**<DateDisplay timestamp="1755014943770" />**

### A few more nodes
**<DateDisplay timestamp="1755708141198" />**
>Helsinki, FI and Ashburn, US deployed
>

**<DateDisplay timestamp="1755812102143" />**
gb-cam1 (Cambridge, GB - Regional) was deployed
<details>
<summary>Original message</summary>
>@everyone I have identified the root cause of the outages today and it has been permanently fixed
>
>There will be major changes. ZTL and Altare will move closer. Altare will begin using IPs and more services from ZTL. Management will be shared and we will begin offering more paid and enterprise services alongside Altare’s free hosting for extra revenue. This contrasts to the previous system of ZTL being by Altare and just being a subsidiary but a completely separate thing 
>
>Control over Altare & ZTL will more evenly split. Other team members will have access to infrastructure and core assets so that outages like today cannot reoccur 
>
>All new nodes have been deployed. Pending to be added to the dashboard, ETA tomorrow depending on team availability 
>
>gb-cam1 (Cambridge, GB - Regional) is also now available
>

</details>

### Ownership transfer
**<DateDisplay timestamp="1756471957482" />**  
>@everyone Services will continue, operated by @#1 fag (sophieonmc) [ 614377824505167872 ] - I will be exiting the company. Thank you
>

**<DateDisplay timestamp="1756502044932" />**
He announced he added a new big node in paris (64 cores, 256gb of ram). This node was originally meant to be only for the database and panel (the subdomain the node used is `par-dc1.core.altr.cc`).